So with all the work on logging the user in and keeping him logged in,
let's make sure the user can also logout by pressing the signout button.
Now that actually shouldn't be too hard,
we have that side drawer here
and the goal will be to simply dispatch an action when we click our button here, the sign out button
we actually created on our own and then simply dispatch an action which triggers
an action here
that essentially clears our storage and removes the token from the redux store.
So I'll create an action type, export const auth remove token because that is what we'll essentially do by the
end, auth remove token and I will create a new action type here, a new action creator I mean, export const auth
logout,
that's the first thing I want to do.
This will be an action creator that allows us to run side effects
and here, I actually want to dispatch auth clear storage,
I also want to make sure that we go back to the auth page though and if you remember, we load the auth
page from the app.js file right, there
we have this start single screen map function
we are executing. Well essentially I want to execute this again now.
Well nothing easier than that,
we export as a default an arrow function which then run this code, this makes it available to us to
be imported and executed in other files so that we just import app as a function we execute that will
then effectively run this code.
So I first of all have to go to my index files where I import app and I now need to execute this as a
function in both index.ios and Android,
make sure to save both files and now I can take advantage of that in my auth.js file and import it
here too, import app from
my app file and execute this as a function to start with the auth screen, like that. Now one issue we could
run into here is that we haven't cleared the storage yet and therefore, we still find our refresh token and so
on there
and since we try to auto login from our auth screen, we could automatically log the user in again. To
prevent this from happening,
what I will do is I will first of all add something to clear storage and also clear the refresh token
here
because we only dispatch this if we got no refresh token or if we really want to get rid of it.
And then here, I will ensure that I return this from this dispatch function
so that here I can actually subscribe to it because that will be a promise,
what async storage gives us and I only call app if that is completed,
so if we actually did successfully delete this item so that we can't enter this infinite loop. Now that's
one thing,
I also want to clear the internal state and for that, I'll import auth remove token
and I'll add an action creator for that,
so export const auth remove token, gets no arguments and will be a good old normal action creator where
i just return a javascript object where I set the type to auth remove token and nothing else,
no payload needs to be passed.
This is something I'll also dispatch here, I will dispatch next to my auth clear storage action, I'll dispatch
auth remove token.
With that we can work on the reducer
but before I do this, I want to make auth logout globally available,
so I'll go to the index.js file and simply export it here, auth logout and then I'll go to my auth reducer
to also handle the case for auth remove tokened, this new action type we added,
so let's add it here too, let's add case auth remove token,
let's return a javascript object where we copy the old state
even though we only have the token here
but anyways
and let's set the token to null.
With that we get the reducer updated,
now we just need to make sure that we dispatch our logout action here.
We already export it in index.js,
.
now I just have to go to my side drawer and connect it to react redux.
So let's first of all import connect here,
whoops,
from react redux and then we'll add good old map dispatch to props here at the bottom,
get the dispatch function and then return
our mapping object where we might have an logout method which in the end will be an arrow function where
we dispatch. Now we need to import a new action because that is what we want to dispatch,
so I'll import something from and now I'll go to the store folder and there to actions and there to the index
file and from there we can import auth logout.
Now this is what I'll dispatch down here,
I'll run auth logout which will give us the action I want to send to the store.
And now we can use this prop not before connecting it though, so connect null for map states to props
but then map dispatch to props as the second argument
and now I want to use that when I click this button,
so I'll add on press here to touchable opacity and assign this to this props on logout.
Now for this to work, we need to make sure that the side drawer has access to our store,
so in app.js where we register components, we have to change the setup for the side drawer and also
pass store and the provider here.
Now let's save all of that and go back to our application and reload it
and then let's click sign out and I'm back on the auth screen and if I reload, I'm also not logged in
again, if I manually login though,
this still works
and then I'm back in the auto login mode.
So let's also try this on Android,
there if I sign out,
looks good,
now let's sign in again there
and let's maybe also try to share an image again.
So take a photo,
like this,
yes,
pick a location,
let's share it
and click on share the place,
this seems to work,
let's find the place here
and we see it's empty, only when we reload and find the places we can see it.
Now that is something we'll fix in the next module
but for now we got this whole authentication flow going, it should be working fine here. Was quite a lot of
work
but I wanted to show you in detail how you can set this up,
you can of course always fine tune this to your needs, simplify it, maybe write it a bit better,
I deliberately used a bit of a more verbose solution but I'm happy we got a working solution here and
we now support login, sign up, auto login
and also user logout.